Code for our paper - _"Who Wrote the Book? Detecting and Attributing LLM Ghostwriters"_

TODO: add arxiv link here

### Abstract
In this paper, we introduce GhostWriteBench, a dataset for LLM authorship attribution.
It comprises long-form texts (50K$+$ words per book) generated by frontier LLMs, and is designed to test generalisation across multiple out-of-distribution (OOD) dimensions, 
including domain and unseen LLM author. We also propose TRACE—a novel fingerprinting method that is interpretable and lightweight—that works for both open- and closed-source models. 
TRACE  creates the fingerprint by capturing token-level transition patterns (e.g., word rank) estimated by another lightweight language model. 
Experiments on GhostWriteBench demonstrate that TRACE achieves state-of-the-art performance, remains robust in OOD settings, and works well in limited training data scenarios.

[//]: # ()
[//]: # (In this paper: )

[//]: # (* We introduce GhostWriteBench, a new dataset for LLM authorship attribution that supports long-form book detection and explicitly tests generalisation across two OOD dimensions.)

[//]: # (* We propose TRACE, a lightweight and interpretable fingerprinting technique for LLM authorship attribution which is more generalisable. )

[//]: # ()


### GhostWriteBench Dataset
The data (with three splits as per paper) can be found in [/ghostwritebench](./ghostwritebench) folder.

### TRACE Fingerprint
This basically involves: 
* Generating token-level scores using an evaluator language model ([generate-token-scores-TRACE.py](./src/generate-token-scores-TRACE.py)).
* Then, using this scores to compute fingerprints during inference.
  * Rank-based - [test-rank-based-TRACE.py](./src/test-rank-based-TRACE.py)
  * Entropy-based - [test-entropy-based-TRACE.py](./src/test-entropy-based-TRACE.py)

### Citing
TODO